README.markdown, before:

# VIM\_CONFIG #

## INTRODUCTION ##

This is a vim configuration created by [duwanis](http://www.duwanis.com
"Duwanis.com") and modified by [wallace](http://github.com/wallace/vim_config).

It's mostly geared towards doing Ruby development on an OS X machine; hence a
lot of the configurations are Ruby-specific and/or depend on functionality
available in MacVim. But even if you're not a ruby dev and you don't work in
OS X, there might be some useful or otherwise interesting ideas in this
config.

## NEWBIE-FRIENDLY ##

This config is written to be newbie-friendly - basically, when I introduce
someone to Vim, I want to be able to say "go through the vim tutorial, then copy
my config, read the README, and you'll be good to go." So I've tried to be
explicit here, but you shouldn't expect to pick this config up and run with it
if you've never used Vim before - go through the vim tutorial (`:help vimtutor`)
first, at least. :)
      
## INSTALLATION ##
      
Though you'll probably want to just examine this vim config to see what
I've used, if you're TOTALLY new to vim, you might want to install it and
try it out yourself. That's cool. Here's how:

1. Fork this repository (so you have your own copy for when you want to
   make changes).
2. Install the homesick gem (this makes it really easy): `sudo gem
   install homesick`
3. Install your copy of the vim\_config repository using homesick:
   `homesick clone your_github_username/vim_config` (assuming you
   cloned it on github)
4. Symlink it using homesick: `homesick symlink your_github_username/vim_config`
5. Open vim. There will be errors this first time because you haven't
   installed any of the plugins yet. Run `:BundleInstall` to tell Vundle to
   install all of the packages for you (more on Vundle below).
6. Restart vim. Enjoy.

## FEATURES ##

Some of the general changes to default Vim functionality:

1. `Leader` is set to ; - the mapleader key defaults to \\ in Vim, which
   seems kind of... out of the way. I know a lot of people set their
   mapleader to be the comma key so that it's close to the home row; I
   prefer to have mine easily within reach.
2. Keybindings - I generally try to make my keybindings match some kind of
   mnemonic, and they almost always start with `Leader` (I'm just going to use
   `;` for the rest of this README, but if you change `Leader` substitute
   whatever character you use). Notable keybindings:
   - `;w`, `;W`: writes the current buffer (and closes it if you use W)
   - `;q`, `;Q`: close the current window (and all others if you use Q)
   - `;h`, `;j`, `;k`, `;l`: navigate between windows. Life's too short for
     <C-W>.
   - `;;`: opens a vim command prompt (equivalent to `:`). For when you're too
     lazy to hit shift.
   - `;rt`: create/refresh your tags file (hopefully in the future you won't
     have to use this - I'd like to set this up on an autocommand).
3. Files remember where your cursor was when you last had them open.
4. Temp files are saved in a central location rather than colocated with your
   files.

## STRUCTURE ##

This vim config makes use of the Vundle plugin.
Vundle allows plugins to be split into their own individual folders rather than jumbled
together in vim's default locations. This means that if you want to copy this
config but don't like a few of the plugins, you can very easily identify what
needs to be removed.

* bundle - this is the special folder vundle uses to store plugins.
* config - this is where all the custom config files are kept. If you look in
  the vimrc file, you'll see where everything in this folder is loaded
  recursively (even subfolders, if you're obsessive about organizing your config
  settings).
* config/private - this folder is included in .gitignore in case you have some
  personal stuff that you don't want to share (for example, if you want to blog
  using vim, but you don't want to keep your username and password in a git
  repository somewhere :D).

## PLUGINS ##

Plugins are all defined in .vimrc; if you want to remove any just delete its
line from .vimrc and remove the respective folder in your bundle directory.

For some of the plugins below I just use the out-of-the-box configurations; for
the ones that I don't I have their configuration in its own file in the config
directory (e.g. my Ack.vim settings are in config/ack.vim).

### Ack.vim ###

Ack.vim lets you run searches throughout the current working directory. The
command is :Ack, and I've created a keybinding (`;a`) that prompts you for a
search term. `:help Ack` will give you more information.

### Autoclose ###

Autoclose automatically creates closing parens, braces, what-have-you when you
enter the corresponding opening pair. It generally saves you a lot of typing.
Run `:help AutoClose.txt` if you want more information about this plugin.

### BufExplorer ###

BufExplorer is a quick way to switch around between windows. You can run `:help
bufexplorer` to see the full information, or just make use of the `<Leader>be`
keybinding to bring up the BufExplorer window while you've got a few buffers
open to see it in action.

BufExplorer is configured in `vim/config/bufexplorer.vim`

### BufOnly ###

BufOnly is a simple plugin that closes all buffers but the currently open one.
Useful for when you've got a bunch of buffers open that aren't pertinent any
more (e.g. you're switching to a different project now, etc.). I've mapped the
BufOnly command to the `<Leader>bo` keychain.

### CamelCaseMotion ###

CamelCaseMotion defines keybindings for motions that work on camel-case words
(and underscore-separated words). e.g., by default, `w` goes to the end of the
word, even if that word is CamelCasedLikeThis. Using CamelCaseMotion, you can
use `,w` to move to the next part of the CamelCasedWord. `:help camelcasemotion`
for more information.

### Ctrl-P ###

Ctrl-P is a plugin that does fuzzy file-finding for you. It does this in a few
modes, the ones I use most are the standard file finder (bound to `;t`) and the
MRU finder (most recently used - it searches through files you've opened
recently, which is bound to `;b`). Run `:help ctrlp` to read more about this
plugin.

### EasyMotion ###

EasyMotion provides a much simpler way to use some motions in vim. It takes the
<number> out of <number>w or <number>f{char} by highlighting all possible
choices and allowing you to press one key to jump directly to the target.

When one of the available motions is triggered, all visible text preceding or
following the cursor is faded, and motion targets are highlighted.

### Endwise ###

Endwise is like Autoclose above, except that it works for Ruby and Vimscript as
well, putting "end"-type statements in place as necessary when you type. There
isn't a helpfile for Endwise, presumably because it's so simple and
configurationless that there wouldn't be a point in writing one.

### Fugitive ###

Fugitive is perhaps the single most useful plugin I have in my configs. It's a
native Vim interface for interacting with Git repositories, and as you might
expect provides a lot of functionality. You'll want to read up on it using
`:help fugitive` if you're not familiar with it. I have the following
keybindings set up by default:

- `;gs`: pulls up the git status buffer
- `;gl`: shows the git log
- `;gd`: shows the git diff
- `;gb`: shows the git blame for the current buffer
- `;gp`: runs git push
- `;gl`: runs git pull

### Gist ###

This is a pretty useful little plugin that lets you post stuff to
gist.github.com directly from inside vim. Run `:help gist` to see details on how
to use it.

### Indent Guides ###

Most IDEs provide you with some kind of a dotted line or other visual aid to
help you track long indented bodies of code. Vim doesn't by default, but this
plugin adds it in. I don't use it often and try not to write code where it would
be necessary, but sometimes it's helpful. `;ig` toggles the indent guides.
`:help indent-guides` will give you more information if you're interested.

### NERDCommenter ###

NERDCommenter is a nice plugin that allows you to comment/uncomment lines of
code quickly and easily. I've set up a keybinding for it so that `<Leader>c`
will toggle the comment status ofthe current line of code (that is, comment it
if it's not already commented, or uncomment it if it is already commented).
This also works with line-motion commands - for example, `3<Leader>c` will
comment the next 3 lines of code, `G<Leader>c` will comment every line until
the end of the file, etc. You can run `:help NERDCommenter` to see the help
info, and check out the config changes I've made in
`vim/config/nerdcommenter.vim`.

### NERDTree ###

NERDTree is the second-most useful plugin I have, after Fugitive. NERDTree acts
like a project drawer - it will open a thin buffer along the left side of your
Vim session that displays the contents of the current directory and allows you
to interact with it. `;d` is set to toggle this window on and off, but you'll
definitely want to run `:help NERDTree` and read up on everything you can do
with this plugin.

### Powerline ###

Powerline is a very sexy statusline plugin that puts a lot of information at
your fingertips by default, and does color-coding on your status bars based on
window type, whether it's the active window, and what mode you're in. `:help
powerline` is useful if you want to customize this.

### Rails.vim ###

Rails.vim provides a slew of niceties for interacting with Rails applications
from vim. Rather than go through everything here, just take a look at `:help
rails` if you're interested.

### Repeat.vim ###

Repeat.vim is basically a utility plugin that makes actions some other plugins
take repeatable using `.` like normal vim operations.

### SnipMate ###

SnipMate gives you snippets - pieces of often typed text you can insert into
your document using a trigger word. Checkout the help files (`:help snipmate`)
or view the plugin's website at vim.org for more specifics.

### Solarized ###

I'm a huge fan of the Solarized colorscheme, so that's installed and loaded up
by default.

### Supertab ###

Supertab is tab-completion for insert mode. Just start typing a word and hit
tab. `:help supertab` gives you more info.

### Surround ###

Surround is a plugin that provides some keybindings for working with surrounding
characters. If you want to quickly surround this sentence with parentheses or
change the single-quotes around that word to double-quotes, Surround is your
plugin. See `:help surround` for info.

### Syntastic ###

Syntastic does syntax checks on certain file types and provides errors inside of
vim for you whenever something's awry. It's a great sanity check even if it is
perhaps a bit over-zealous on HTML-type files... and it integrates fabulously
with Powerline. `:help syntastic` for more info.

### Tabular.vim ###

I like vertically aligning assignment for quicker visual parsing.

### Tagbar ###

Tagbar is a vim plugin for browsing the tags of source code files. It provides
a sidebar that displays the ctags-generated tags of the current file, ordered
by their scope. This means that for example methods in C++ are displayed under
the class they are defined in.

### Tomdoc.vim ###

I've started using TomDoc for documenting my Ruby code, and wanted a syntax file
I could load up that would make my TomDoc comments stand out a bit and be easier
to read. That's what Tomdoc.vim does.

Commit message:

Update instructions for installing vundle

README.markdown, after:

# VIM\_CONFIG #

## INTRODUCTION ##

This is a vim configuration created by [duwanis](http://www.duwanis.com
"Duwanis.com") and modified by [wallace](http://github.com/wallace/vim_config).

It's mostly geared towards doing Ruby development on an OS X machine; hence a
lot of the configurations are Ruby-specific and/or depend on functionality
available in MacVim. But even if you're not a ruby dev and you don't work in
OS X, there might be some useful or otherwise interesting ideas in this
config.

## NEWBIE-FRIENDLY ##

This config is written to be newbie-friendly - basically, when I introduce
someone to Vim, I want to be able to say "go through the vim tutorial, then copy
my config, read the README, and you'll be good to go." So I've tried to be
explicit here, but you shouldn't expect to pick this config up and run with it
if you've never used Vim before - go through the vim tutorial (`:help vimtutor`)
first, at least. :)
      
## INSTALLATION ##
      
Though you'll probably want to just examine this vim config to see what
I've used, if you're TOTALLY new to vim, you might want to install it and
try it out yourself. That's cool. Here's how:

1. Fork this repository (so you have your own copy for when you want to
   make changes).
2. Install the homesick gem (this makes it really easy): `sudo gem
   install homesick`
3. Install your copy of the vim\_config repository using homesick:
   `homesick clone your_github_username/vim_config` (assuming you
   cloned it on github)
4. Symlink it using homesick: `homesick symlink your_github_username/vim_config`
5. Install vundle if you haven't already: `git clone https://github.com/gmarik/vundle.git ~/.vim/bundle/vundle`
6. Open vim. There will be errors this first time because you haven't
   installed any of the plugins yet. Run `:BundleInstall` to tell Vundle to
   install all of the packages for you (more on Vundle below).
7. Restart vim. Enjoy.

## FEATURES ##

Some of the general changes to default Vim functionality:

1. `Leader` is set to ; - the mapleader key defaults to \\ in Vim, which
   seems kind of... out of the way. I know a lot of people set their
   mapleader to be the comma key so that it's close to the home row; I
   prefer to have mine easily within reach.
2. Keybindings - I generally try to make my keybindings match some kind of
   mnemonic, and they almost always start with `Leader` (I'm just going to use
   `;` for the rest of this README, but if you change `Leader` substitute
   whatever character you use). Notable keybindings:
   - `;w`, `;W`: writes the current buffer (and closes it if you use W)
   - `;q`, `;Q`: close the current window (and all others if you use Q)
   - `;h`, `;j`, `;k`, `;l`: navigate between windows. Life's too short for
     <C-W>.
   - `;;`: opens a vim command prompt (equivalent to `:`). For when you're too
     lazy to hit shift.
   - `;rt`: create/refresh your tags file (hopefully in the future you won't
     have to use this - I'd like to set this up on an autocommand).
3. Files remember where your cursor was when you last had them open.
4. Temp files are saved in a central location rather than colocated with your
   files.

## STRUCTURE ##

This vim config makes use of the Vundle plugin.
Vundle allows plugins to be split into their own individual folders rather than jumbled
together in vim's default locations. This means that if you want to copy this
config but don't like a few of the plugins, you can very easily identify what
needs to be removed.

* bundle - this is the special folder vundle uses to store plugins.
* config - this is where all the custom config files are kept. If you look in
  the vimrc file, you'll see where everything in this folder is loaded
  recursively (even subfolders, if you're obsessive about organizing your config
  settings).
* config/private - this folder is included in .gitignore in case you have some
  personal stuff that you don't want to share (for example, if you want to blog
  using vim, but you don't want to keep your username and password in a git
  repository somewhere :D).

## PLUGINS ##

Plugins are all defined in .vimrc; if you want to remove any just delete its
line from .vimrc and remove the respective folder in your bundle directory.

For some of the plugins below I just use the out-of-the-box configurations; for
the ones that I don't I have their configuration in its own file in the config
directory (e.g. my Ack.vim settings are in config/ack.vim).

### Ack.vim ###

Ack.vim lets you run searches throughout the current working directory. The
command is :Ack, and I've created a keybinding (`;a`) that prompts you for a
search term. `:help Ack` will give you more information.

### Autoclose ###

Autoclose automatically creates closing parens, braces, what-have-you when you
enter the corresponding opening pair. It generally saves you a lot of typing.
Run `:help AutoClose.txt` if you want more information about this plugin.

### BufExplorer ###

BufExplorer is a quick way to switch around between windows. You can run `:help
bufexplorer` to see the full information, or just make use of the `<Leader>be`
keybinding to bring up the BufExplorer window while you've got a few buffers
open to see it in action.

BufExplorer is configured in `vim/config/bufexplorer.vim`

### BufOnly ###

BufOnly is a simple plugin that closes all buffers but the currently open one.
Useful for when you've got a bunch of buffers open that aren't pertinent any
more (e.g. you're switching to a different project now, etc.). I've mapped the
BufOnly command to the `<Leader>bo` keychain.

### CamelCaseMotion ###

CamelCaseMotion defines keybindings for motions that work on camel-case words
(and underscore-separated words). e.g., by default, `w` goes to the end of the
word, even if that word is CamelCasedLikeThis. Using CamelCaseMotion, you can
use `,w` to move to the next part of the CamelCasedWord. `:help camelcasemotion`
for more information.

### Ctrl-P ###

Ctrl-P is a plugin that does fuzzy file-finding for you. It does this in a few
modes, the ones I use most are the standard file finder (bound to `;t`) and the
MRU finder (most recently used - it searches through files you've opened
recently, which is bound to `;b`). Run `:help ctrlp` to read more about this
plugin.

### EasyMotion ###

EasyMotion provides a much simpler way to use some motions in vim. It takes the
<number> out of <number>w or <number>f{char} by highlighting all possible
choices and allowing you to press one key to jump directly to the target.

When one of the available motions is triggered, all visible text preceding or
following the cursor is faded, and motion targets are highlighted.

### Endwise ###

Endwise is like Autoclose above, except that it works for Ruby and Vimscript as
well, putting "end"-type statements in place as necessary when you type. There
isn't a helpfile for Endwise, presumably because it's so simple and
configurationless that there wouldn't be a point in writing one.

### Fugitive ###

Fugitive is perhaps the single most useful plugin I have in my configs. It's a
native Vim interface for interacting with Git repositories, and as you might
expect provides a lot of functionality. You'll want to read up on it using
`:help fugitive` if you're not familiar with it. I have the following
keybindings set up by default:

- `;gs`: pulls up the git status buffer
- `;gl`: shows the git log
- `;gd`: shows the git diff
- `;gb`: shows the git blame for the current buffer
- `;gp`: runs git push
- `;gl`: runs git pull

### Gist ###

This is a pretty useful little plugin that lets you post stuff to
gist.github.com directly from inside vim. Run `:help gist` to see details on how
to use it.

### Indent Guides ###

Most IDEs provide you with some kind of a dotted line or other visual aid to
help you track long indented bodies of code. Vim doesn't by default, but this
plugin adds it in. I don't use it often and try not to write code where it would
be necessary, but sometimes it's helpful. `;ig` toggles the indent guides.
`:help indent-guides` will give you more information if you're interested.

### NERDCommenter ###

NERDCommenter is a nice plugin that allows you to comment/uncomment lines of
code quickly and easily. I've set up a keybinding for it so that `<Leader>c`
will toggle the comment status ofthe current line of code (that is, comment it
if it's not already commented, or uncomment it if it is already commented).
This also works with line-motion commands - for example, `3<Leader>c` will
comment the next 3 lines of code, `G<Leader>c` will comment every line until
the end of the file, etc. You can run `:help NERDCommenter` to see the help
info, and check out the config changes I've made in
`vim/config/nerdcommenter.vim`.

### NERDTree ###

NERDTree is the second-most useful plugin I have, after Fugitive. NERDTree acts
like a project drawer - it will open a thin buffer along the left side of your
Vim session that displays the contents of the current directory and allows you
to interact with it. `;d` is set to toggle this window on and off, but you'll
definitely want to run `:help NERDTree` and read up on everything you can do
with this plugin.

### Powerline ###

Powerline is a very sexy statusline plugin that puts a lot of information at
your fingertips by default, and does color-coding on your status bars based on
window type, whether it's the active window, and what mode you're in. `:help
powerline` is useful if you want to customize this.

### Rails.vim ###

Rails.vim provides a slew of niceties for interacting with Rails applications
from vim. Rather than go through everything here, just take a look at `:help
rails` if you're interested.

### Repeat.vim ###

Repeat.vim is basically a utility plugin that makes actions some other plugins
take repeatable using `.` like normal vim operations.

### SnipMate ###

SnipMate gives you snippets - pieces of often typed text you can insert into
your document using a trigger word. Checkout the help files (`:help snipmate`)
or view the plugin's website at vim.org for more specifics.

### Solarized ###

I'm a huge fan of the Solarized colorscheme, so that's installed and loaded up
by default.

### Supertab ###

Supertab is tab-completion for insert mode. Just start typing a word and hit
tab. `:help supertab` gives you more info.

### Surround ###

Surround is a plugin that provides some keybindings for working with surrounding
characters. If you want to quickly surround this sentence with parentheses or
change the single-quotes around that word to double-quotes, Surround is your
plugin. See `:help surround` for info.

### Syntastic ###

Syntastic does syntax checks on certain file types and provides errors inside of
vim for you whenever something's awry. It's a great sanity check even if it is
perhaps a bit over-zealous on HTML-type files... and it integrates fabulously
with Powerline. `:help syntastic` for more info.

### Tabular.vim ###

I like vertically aligning assignment for quicker visual parsing.

### Tagbar ###

Tagbar is a vim plugin for browsing the tags of source code files. It provides
a sidebar that displays the ctags-generated tags of the current file, ordered
by their scope. This means that for example methods in C++ are displayed under
the class they are defined in.

### Tomdoc.vim ###

I've started using TomDoc for documenting my Ruby code, and wanted a syntax file
I could load up that would make my TomDoc comments stand out a bit and be easier
to read. That's what Tomdoc.vim does.
